[SCATTERED APPLAUSE]
PETE LEPAGE: It's been
10 years since Chrome
was first released.
A lot has changed since then.
But our goal of
providing a great,
solid platform for building
modern web applications hasn't.
In Chrome 69, there is support
for CSS scroll snapping,
support for notches,
support for web locks,
and a few new CSS 4 features.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in, and see
what's new for developers
on What's New in Chrome 69.
[INDIE FOLK MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHAMPAGNE CORK POPPING]
[CHAMPAGNE POURING]
[GLASSES CLINKING]
[FIREWORKS BANG]
[FIREWORKS WHISTLING]
[CHEERING]
CSS Scroll Snap allows e to
create smooth, slick scrolling
experiences by declaring
scroll snap positions that
tell the browser where to stop
after each scrolling operation.
This is super helpful
for image carousels
or paginated sections,
where you want the user
to scroll to a specific point.
For an image carousel, I'd add
Scroll Snap type x mandatory
to the scroll container,
and scroll-snap-align center
to each image.
Then, as the user scrolls
through the carousel,
each image will be
smoothly scrolled
into the perfect position.
CSS Scroll snapping
works well, even when
targets have different
sizes or when they're
larger than the scroller.
Check out the updates post for
more details and some samples
that you can try.
There are an increasing
number of mobile devices
being released with a display
cutout, sometimes called notch.
To deal with the notch,
browsers add a little bit
of extra margin to your
page so that the content
isn't obscured.
But what if you want
to use that space?
With CSS environment variables
and the viewport-fit meta tag,
now you can.
For example, to tell the browser
to expand into the display
cutout area, set the
viewport-fit property
and the viewport
meta tag to cover.
You can then use the safe area
inset CSS environment variables
to lay out your content.
It's important to
test this well.
Remember, you're
telling the browser
that it's OK if
some of your content
gets hidden behind
the display cutout.
And don't forget to test this
both in portrait and landscape
mode.
There is a great post on the
"WebKit" blog about designing
for iPhone 10, or check
out the explainer or spec
for more details.
All of these are linked
in the description.
The Web Locks API allows you to
asynchronously acquire a lock,
hold it while work is
performed, then release it.
While the lock is held, no
other script in the origin
can acquire the same lock,
helping to coordinate
the usage of shared resources.
For example, if a web app
running in multiple tabs
wants to ensure that only one
tab is syncing to the network,
the sync code would attempt to
acquire a lock named network
sync lock.
The first tab to
acquire the lock
will sync the data
to the network.
If another tab tries to
acquire the same lock,
it will be queued.
Once the lock has been released,
the next queued request
will be granted the
lock, and execute.
MDN has a great primer
on using Web Locks,
and includes a more
in-depth explanation
with lots of examples, linked
in the description below.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 69
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
From the CSS 4 spec, you can
now create color transitions
around the circumference of a
circle using conic gradients.
Lea Verou has a great page
with examples and a polyfill
that you can use
for other browsers
until it's available there.
There's a new toggle
attribute method on Elements
that toggles the
existence of an attribute,
similar to a classList.toggle.
JavaScript arrays are
getting two new methods,
flat and flatMap.
They return a new array with
all the sub-array elements
smushed into it.
And offscreenCanvas moves
the work off the main thread
into a worker,
helping to eliminate
performance bottlenecks.
All the details,
including docs and specs,
are in the updates post
linked in the description.
And be sure to click
the Subscribe button,
and you'll get an
email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
Happy 10th birthday, Chrome.
I'm Pete LePage.
Here's to the future, and
an even more capable web.
Ooh, cake.
See you next time.
[INDIE FOLK MUSIC PLAYING]
[FIREWORKS EXPLODING]
[FIREWORKS WHISTLING]
[CHEERING]
You still watching?
This is good cake.
Sorry, guys.
This is good.
I hope there's more.
See ya.
[LAUGHTER]